you know I knew a guy who was a
bartender in Washington named Steve Daly
and I found myself covering Wimbledon
with him because I was a sports writer
for two years at the Washington Post
because that's the job that they had
open after my being a police reporter
and I said how did you get from being a
bartender to a columnist for the Chicago
Tribune he said well I used to be a
funny bartender and they you know the
sports editors would come in they said
you ought to try writing a column and he
did it and then he did it again he did
it again and he got this job so what
happens when you become a big-shot
editor or a big-shot column the sooner
or later people ask you questions like
this what advice do you have for young
journalists and unfortunately if you're
honest you have to say number one get
real lucky but number two and maybe more
important than number one is to work
like a nut to work really really hard
and to learn as much as you can and to
hope that you have some talent almost
equal to or equal to your sense of
effort I think because I have to take as
an editor what always impresses me are
the people who are obsessed people who
are a gifted perhaps but obsessed and
they can't even imagine themselves doing
anything other than pull it up covering
the political campaign or writing about
the war in Iraq or Afghanistan
or for that matter writing fiction at
the level of an Alice Munro or a George
Saunders or whoever you happen to like
those people invariably do it all the
time and with a sense of passion and
obsession that makes them as successful
as they are